URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/aws-best-practices-ddos-resiliency/aws-waf-rate-based-rules.html
TITLE: AWS WAF – Rate-based rules - AWS Best Practices for DDoS Resiliency

# AWS WAF – Rate-based rules

AWS strongly recommends protecting against HTTP request floods by using
rate-based rules in AWS WAF to automatically block or challenge requests matching a
specific aggregation key (which is by IP address), when the number of requests received
in a configurable sliding window exceed a threshold that you define. Client IP addresses
that match the aggregation key will receive an HTTP 403 forbidden response (or custom
configured block error response code or body) and remain blocked until request rates
drop below the threshold.

It's recommended to layer rate-based rules to provide enhanced protection so that
you have:

- A blanket rate-based rule to protect your application from large HTTP floods.

- A rule with a custom aggregation key—for example Header (Host) + URI + query
string + IP—at more restrictive rates than the blanket rate-based rule. This is
particularly effective against DDoS because DDoS botnets usually target the same URL
repeatedly.

- A rate-based rule with JA3 or JA4 as an aggregation key to monitor request
based on client TLS fingerprints.

- One or more rate-based rules to protect specific URIs—such as those that are
unable to be cached—at more restrictive rates than the blanket rate-based rule.

For instance, you can choose a blanket rate-based rule (no scope-down statement)
with a limit of 500 requests within a 5-minute period, and then create one or more of
the following rate-based rules with lower limits than 500 (as low as 10 requests in a
10-minute period) using scope-down statements:

- Protect your web pages with a scope-down
statement such as if NOT uri_path contains '.' so that requests for
resources without a file extension are further protected. This also protects your
homepage (/) which is a frequently targeted URI path.

- Protect dynamic endpoints with a scope-down
statement such as if method exactly matches 'post' (convert
lowercase).

- Protect heavy requests that reach your
database or invoke a one-time password (OTP) with a scope-down such as if
uri_path starts_with '/login', uri_path starts_with '/signup' or uri_path
starts_with '/forgotpassword'.

- Use lower limits for country codes that aren't your target demographic

Rate-based rules with JA3 and JA4 headers are supported in CloudFront and ALB. Customers
have asked for SSL/TLS inspection capabilities and JA3 and JA4 fingerprints to help them
analyze unique TLS handshake characteristics in the form of 32 (JA3)- or 36
(JA4)-character hash fingerprint of the TLS Client Hello packet of incoming requests. By
using both JA4 and JA3 fingerprinting capabilities, you can implement robust protection
against automated threats while maintaining legitimate traffic flow to your applications.

Also, you can use autonomous system number (ASN)-based rate-limits to control
incoming traffic from well-known ASN lists or network vendors from countries where you
aren't actively operating.

Together with IP Reputation rule groups (discussed in the following section),
rate-based rules in Block mode are the cornerstone of a defense-in-depth AWS WAF
configuration to protect against request floods and are a requirement for AWS Shield Advanced
cost protection requests to be approved.
