URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/importing-keys-considerations.html
TITLE: Special considerations for imported key material - AWS Key Management Service

# Special considerations for imported key material

Before you decide to import key material into AWS KMS, you should understand the following
characteristics of imported key material.

You generate the key material

You are responsible for generating the key material using a source of randomness
that meets your security requirements.

You're responsible for availability and durability

AWS KMS is designed to keep imported key material highly available. But AWS KMS does not
maintain the durability of imported key material at the same level as key material that
AWS KMS generates. For details, see Protecting imported key material.

You can delete the key material

You can delete imported key
material from a KMS key, immediately rendering the KMS key unusable. Also,
when you import key material into a KMS key, you can determine whether the key expires
and set its expiration time. When the
expiration time arrives, AWS KMS deletes the key material. Without key material, the KMS key cannot be used
in any cryptographic operation. To restore the key, you must reimport the same key
material into the key.

You cannot change the key material for asymmetric, and HMAC keys

When you import key material into a KMS key, the KMS key is permanently
associated with that key material. You can reimport the same key material, but you cannot import different key material
into that KMS key. Also, you cannot enable automatic key
rotation for a KMS key with imported key material. However, you can manually rotate a KMS key with imported key
material.

You can perform on-demand rotation on symmetric encryption keys

Symmetric encryption keys with imported key material support on-demand
rotation. You can import multiple key materials
into these keys and use on-demand
rotation to update the current key material. The current key material is used
for both encryption and decryption but other (non-current) key materials can only be
used for decryption.

You cannot change the key material origin

KMS keys designed for imported key material have an origin value of EXTERNAL that cannot be changed. You cannot
convert a KMS key for imported key material to use key material from any other source,
including AWS KMS. Similarly, you cannot convert a KMS key with AWS KMS key material into
one designed for imported key material.

You cannot export key material

You cannot export any key material that you imported. AWS KMS cannot return the
imported key material to you in any form. You must maintain a copy of your imported key
material outside of AWS, preferably in a key manager, such as a hardware security
module (HSM), so you can reimport the key material if you delete it or it
expires.

You can create multi-Region keys with imported key material

Multi-Region with imported key material have the features of KMS keys with
imported key material, and can interoperate between AWS Regions. To create a
multi-Region key with imported key material, you must import the same key material into
the primary KMS key and into each replica key. For more details on importing key materials for
multi-Region keys, see Import new key material.

Asymmetric keys and HMAC keys are portable and interoperable

You can use your asymmetric key material and HMAC key material outside of AWS to
interoperate with AWS KMS keys with the same imported key material.

Unlike the AWS KMS symmetric ciphertext, which is inextricably bound to the KMS key
used in the algorithm, AWS KMS uses standard HMAC and asymmetric formats for encryption,
signing, and MAC generation. As a result, the keys are portable and support traditional
escrow key scenarios.

When your KMS key has imported key material, you can use the imported key material
outside of AWS to perform the following operations.

- HMAC keys — You can verify a HMAC tag that was generated by the HMAC
KMS key with imported key material. You can also use the HMAC KMS key with the
imported key material to verify an HMAC tag that was generated by the key material
outside of AWS.

- Asymmetric encryption keys — You can use your private asymmetric
encryption key outside of AWS to decrypt a ciphertext encrypted by the KMS key
with the corresponding public key. You can also use your asymmetric KMS key to
decrypt an asymmetric ciphertext that was generated outside of AWS.

- Asymmetric signing keys — You can use your asymmetric signing KMS key
with imported key material to verify digital signatures generated by your private
signing key outside of AWS. You can also use your asymmetric public signing key
outside of AWS to verify signatures generated by your asymmetric KMS key.

- Asymmetric key agreement keys — You can use your asymmetric key agreement
KMS key with imported key material to derive shared secrets with a peer outside of
AWS.

If you import the same key material into different KMS keys in the same
AWS Region, those keys are also interoperable. To create interoperable KMS keys in
different AWS Regions, create a multi-Region key with imported key material.

RSA private keys

- AWS KMS requires imported RSA private keys to have prime factors that conform to
the test described in FIPS 186-5,
Section A. 1.3. Other software or devices may use different algorithms for
validating these prime factors of RSA private keys. In rare instances, keys
validated using other algorithms may not be accepted by AWS KMS.

Symmetric encryption keys are not portable or interoperable

The symmetric ciphertexts that AWS KMS produces are not portable or interoperable.
AWS KMS does not publish the symmetric ciphertext format that portability requires, and
the format might change without notice.

- AWS KMS cannot decrypt symmetric ciphertexts that you encrypt outside of AWS,
even if you use key material that you have imported.

- AWS KMS does not support decrypting any AWS KMS symmetric ciphertext outside of
AWS KMS, even if the ciphertext was encrypted under a KMS key with imported key
material.

- KMS keys with the same imported key material are not interoperable. The
symmetric ciphertext that AWS KMS generates ciphertext that is specific to each
KMS key. This ciphertext format guarantees that only the KMS key that encrypted
data can decrypt it.

Also, you cannot use any AWS tools, such as the AWS Encryption SDK or Amazon S3 client-side
encryption, to decrypt AWS KMS symmetric ciphertexts.

As a result, you cannot use keys with imported key material to support key escrow
arrangements where an authorized third party with conditional access to key material can
decrypt certain ciphertexts outside of AWS KMS. To support key escrow, use the AWS Encryption SDK to encrypt your message under a key that is independent of
AWS KMS.
