URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/latest/userguide/securityhub-custom-insights.html
TITLE: Understanding custom insights in Security Hub CSPM - AWS Security Hub

# Understanding custom insights in Security Hub CSPM

In addition to AWS Security Hub CSPM managed insights, you can create custom insights in Security Hub CSPM to track
issues that are specific to your environment. Custom insights
help you track a curated subset of issues.

Here are some examples of custom insights that may be useful to set up:

- If you own an administrator account, you can set up a custom insight to track critical and
high severity findings that are affecting member accounts.

- If you rely on a specific integrated AWS service, you can set up a custom insight to
track critical and high severity findings from that service.

- If you rely on a third party integration, you can set up a custom insight to track critical
and high severity findings from that integrated product.

You can create completely new custom insights, or start from an existing custom or managed
insight.

Each insight can be configured with the following options:

- Grouping attribute – The grouping attribute
determines which items are displayed in the insight results list. For example, if the
grouping attribute is Product name, the insight results display
the number of findings that are associated with each finding provider.

- Optional filters – The filters narrow down the
matching findings for the insight.

A finding is included in the insight results only if it matches all of the provided filters. For example,
if the filters are "Product name is GuardDuty" and "Resource type is AwsS3Bucket",
matching findings must match both of these criteria.

However, Security Hub CSPM applies boolean OR logic to filters that use the same attribute but
different values. For example, if the filters are "Product name is GuardDuty" and "Product name
is Amazon Inspector", a finding matches if it was generated by either Amazon GuardDuty or Amazon Inspector.

If you use the resource identifier or resource type as the grouping attribute,
the insight results include all of the resources that are in the matching findings. The
list is not limited to resources that match a resource type filter. For example, an insight
identifies findings that are associated with S3 buckets, and groups those findings by resource
identifier. A matching finding contains both an S3 bucket resource and an IAM access key
resource. The insight results include both resources.

If you enable cross-region aggregation and then create a custom insight, the insight applies to matching findings
in the aggregation Region and linked Regions. The exception is if your insight includes a Region filter.
