URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/organizations/latest/userguide/move_account_to_ou.html
TITLE: Moving accounts to an organizational unit (OU) or between the root and OUs with AWS Organizations - AWS Organizations

# Moving accounts to an organizational unit (OU) or between the root and OUs with AWS Organizations

When you sign in to your organization's management account, you can move accounts in
your organization from the root to an OU, from one OU to another, or back to the root
from an OU. Placing an account inside an OU makes it subject to any policies that are
attached to the parent OU and any OUs in the parent chain up to the root. If an account
isn't in an OU, it's subject to only the policies that are attached directly to the root
and any policies that are attached directly to the account. To move accounts, complete
the following steps.

Minimum permissions

To move accounts to a new location in the OU hierarchy, you must have the
following permissions:

- organizations:DescribeOrganization – required only when using the Organizations console

- organizations:MoveAccount

AWS Management Console

To move accounts to an OU

- Sign in to the AWS Organizations console. You must sign in as an IAM user, assume an IAM role, or
sign in as the root user (not
recommended) in the organization’s management account.

- On the AWS accounts page, find the account or accounts that you want
to move. You can navigate the OU hierarchy or enable View
AWS accounts only to see a flat
list of accounts without the OU structure. If you have a lot of
accounts, you might have to choose Load more accounts in
'ou-name' at
the bottom of the list to find all of those you want to move.

- Choose the check box

next to the name of each account that you want
to move.

- On the Actions menu, under
AWS account, choose Move
.

- In the Move AWS account dialog box,
navigate to and then choose the OU or root that you want to move the
account to, and then choose Move
AWS account.

AWS CLI & AWS SDKs

To move accounts to an OU

You can use one of the following commands to move an account:

- AWS CLI: move-account

The following example moves an AWS account from the root to an
OU. Note that you must specify the IDs of both the source and
destination containers.

$ aws organizations move-account \
--account-id 111122223333 \
--source-parent-id r-a1b2 \
--destination-parent-id ou-a1b2-f6g7h111

This command produces no output when successful.

- AWS SDKs: MoveAccount
