URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/macie/latest/user/accounts-mgmt-ao.html
TITLE: Managing multiple Macie accounts with AWS Organizations - Amazon Macie

# Managing multiple Macie accounts with AWS Organizations

If you use AWS Organizations to centrally manage multiple AWS accounts, you can integrate
Amazon Macie with AWS Organizations, and then centrally manage Macie for accounts in your organization.
With this configuration, a designated Macie administrator can enable and manage Macie for as many as
10,000 accounts. The administrator can also access Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) inventory data and
discover sensitive data in S3 buckets that the accounts own. For details about tasks that
the administrator can perform, see Macie administrator and member account relationships.

AWS Organizations is a global account management service that enables AWS administrators to
consolidate and centrally manage multiple AWS accounts. It provides account management and
consolidated billing features that are designed to support budgetary, security, and
compliance needs. It’s offered at no additional charge and it integrates with multiple
AWS services, including Macie, AWS Security Hub CSPM, and Amazon GuardDuty. To learn more, see the AWS Organizations User Guide.

To integrate Macie with AWS Organizations, you start by designating an account as the delegated
Macie administrator account for the organization. The Macie administrator then enables Macie for other accounts
in the organization, adds those accounts as Macie member accounts, and configures Macie
settings and resources for the accounts.

Tip

If you already associated a Macie administrator account with member accounts by using
invitations, you can designate that account as the delegated Macie administrator account for your
organization in AWS Organizations. If you do this, all currently associated member accounts
remain members and you can take full advantage of the benefits of managing accounts by
using AWS Organizations. For more information, see Transitioning from an invitation-based organization.

The topics in this section explain how to integrate Macie with AWS Organizations and how to
administer and manage Macie for accounts in an organization.

Topics

- Considerations and
recommendations

- Integrating and configuring an
organization

- Reviewing organization
accounts

- Managing member
accounts

- Changing the administrator
account

- Disabling integration with
AWS Organizations
