URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/ddos-app-layer-web-ACL-and-rbr.html
TITLE: Protecting the application layer with AWS WAF web ACLs and Shield Advanced - AWS WAF, AWS Firewall Manager, AWS Shield Advanced, and AWS Shield network security director

Introducing a new console experience for AWS WAF

You can now use the updated experience to access AWS WAF functionality anywhere in the console.
For more details, see Working with the console.

# Protecting the application layer with AWS WAF web ACLs and Shield Advanced

This page explains how AWS WAF web ACLs and Shield Advanced work together to create basic application layer protections.

To protect an application layer resource with Shield Advanced, you start by associating an AWS WAF
web ACL with the resource. AWS WAF is a web application firewall that lets you monitor the
HTTP and HTTPS requests that are forwarded to your application layer resources, and lets
you control access to your content based on the characteristics of the requests. You can
configure a web ACL to monitor and manage requests based on factors such as where the
request originated, the contents of query strings and cookies, and the rate of requests
coming from a single IP address. At a minimum, your Shield Advanced protection requires you to
associate a web ACL with a rate-based rule, which limits the rate of requests for each
IP address.

If the associated web ACL doesn't have a rate-based rule defined, Shield Advanced prompts you
to define at least one. Rate-based rules automatically block traffic from source IPs
when they exceed the thresholds that you define. They help protect your application
against web request floods and can provide alerts about sudden spikes in traffic that
might indicate a potential DDoS attack.

Note

A rate-based rule responds very quickly to spikes in the traffic that the rule
is monitoring. Because of this, a rate-based rule can prevent not only an attack, but also the detection of a potential
attack by Shield Advanced detection. This trade off favors prevention over complete visibility into attack patterns.
We recommend using a rate-based rule as your first line of defense against attacks.

With your web ACL in place, if a DDoS attack occurs, you apply mitigations by adding
and managing rules in the web ACL. You can do this directly, with the assistance of the
Shield Response Team (SRT), or automatically through automatic application layer DDoS mitigation.

Important

If you also use automatic application layer DDoS mitigation, see the best practices for managing
your web ACL at Best practices for using automatic application layer DDoS mitigation.

For information about
using AWS WAF to manage your web request monitoring and management rules, see Creating a protection pack (web ACL) in AWS WAF.
