URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/macie/latest/user/findings-monitor.html
TITLE: Monitoring and processing Macie findings - Amazon Macie

# Monitoring and processing Macie findings

To support integration with other applications, services, and systems, such as monitoring
or event management systems, Amazon Macie automatically publishes policy and sensitive data
findings to Amazon EventBridge as events. For additional support and broader analysis of your
organization's security posture, you can configure Macie to also publish policy and
sensitive data findings to AWS Security Hub CSPM.

Amazon EventBridge

Amazon EventBridge, formerly Amazon CloudWatch Events, is a serverless event bus service that delivers
a stream of real-time data from applications and services, and routes that data
to targets such as AWS Lambda functions, Amazon Simple Notification Service topics, and Amazon Kinesis streams.
With EventBridge, you can automate monitoring and processing of certain types of
events, including events that Macie publishes for findings. To learn more, see
Processing findings with
Amazon EventBridge.

If you integrate AWS User Notifications with Macie, you can also use EventBridge events to automatically
generate notifications about events that Macie publishes for findings. With
User Notifications, you create custom rules and configure delivery channels for receiving
notifications about EventBridge events of interest. The delivery channels include
email, Amazon Q Developer in chat applications, and push notifications in the AWS Console Mobile Application. You can also review
notifications in a central location on the AWS Management Console. To learn more, see
Monitoring findings with
AWS User Notifications.

AWS Security Hub CSPM

AWS Security Hub CSPM is a security service that provides you with a comprehensive view of
your security state across your AWS environment. It collects security data
from AWS services and supported AWS Partner Network security solutions, and helps you
check your environment against security industry standards and best practices.
It also helps you analyze security trends and identify high-priority
issues.

With Security Hub CSPM, you can review and evaluate Macie findings as part of a broader
analysis of your organization's security posture. You can also aggregate
findings from multiple AWS Regions, and monitor and process aggregated
findings data from a single Region. To learn more, see Evaluating findings with
AWS Security Hub CSPM.

When Macie creates a finding, it automatically publishes the finding to EventBridge as a new
event. Depending on the publication settings that you choose for your account, Macie can
also publish the finding to Security Hub CSPM. Macie publishes each new finding immediately after it
finishes processing the finding. If Macie detects a subsequent occurrence of an existing
policy finding, it publishes an update to the existing EventBridge event for the finding. Depending
on your publication settings, Macie can also publish the update to Security Hub CSPM. Macie publishes
these updates on a recurring basis, using a publication frequency that you specify in the
publication settings for your account.

In addition to the preceding options, you can query and retrieve findings data directly by
using the Amazon Macie API. The Amazon Macie API gives you comprehensive, programmatic access to
the data. To query the data, you can send HTTPS requests directly to Macie or use a current
version of an AWS SDK or an AWS command line tool. If you query the data, Macie returns
the results in a JSON response. You can then pass the results to another service or
application for additional processing, monitoring, or reporting. For more information, see
the Amazon Macie API Reference.

Topics

- Configuring publication settings
for findings

- Processing findings with
Amazon EventBridge

- Monitoring findings with
AWS User Notifications

- Evaluating findings with
AWS Security Hub CSPM

- Amazon EventBridge event schema for
findings
