URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/awscloudtrail/latest/userguide/logging-insights-events-with-cloudtrail.html
TITLE: Working with CloudTrail Insights - AWS CloudTrail

# Working with CloudTrail Insights

AWS CloudTrail Insights help AWS users identify and respond to unusual activity associated with API
call rates and API error rates by continuously analyzing CloudTrail management and data events. CloudTrail Insights
analyzes your past management and data events to establish your normal patterns of API call rates and
API error rates, also called the baseline. CloudTrail then generates Insights events
when the current API call rates or error rates deviate from the baseline.

You can collect two types of Insights, each for management and data events.

Management events Insights

- API call rate – A measurement of write-only management
API calls that occur per minute against a baseline API call volume. To log Insights events on the API call rate for management events, the trail or event data store must enable Insights and log
write management events.

- API error rate – A measurement of management API calls
that result in error codes. The error is shown if the API call is unsuccessful. To
log Insights events on API error rate, the trail or event data store must enable Insights and
log read or write management events, or both
read and write management events.

Data events Insights

- API call rate – A measurement of data
API calls that occur per minute against a baseline API call volume. To log Insights events on the API call rate, the trail must enable Insights and log
data events.

- API error rate – A measurement of data API calls
that result in error codes. The error is shown if the API call is unsuccessful. To
log Insights events on API error rate, the trail must enable Insights and
log read or write data events, or both
read and write data events.

Note

Insights events on data events are only supported on trails and not on event data stores.

CloudTrail Insights analyzes the management and data events that occur in each Region and generates an Insights event when unusual activity is detected that deviates from the
baseline. A CloudTrail Insights event is generated in the same Region as its supporting management or data event
is generated.

Additional charges apply for Insights events. You will be charged separately if you enable management events Insights
for both trails and event data stores, and data events Insights. For more information, see AWS CloudTrail Pricing.

Topics

- Costs for Insights events

- Delivery of Insights events

- Logging Insights events with the CloudTrail console

- Logging Insights events with the AWS CLI

- Viewing Insights events for trails

- Viewing Insights events for event data stores
