URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cost-management/latest/userguide/ce-what-is.html
TITLE: Analyzing your costs and usage with AWS Cost Explorer - AWS Cost Management

# Analyzing your costs and usage with AWS Cost Explorer

AWS Cost Explorer is a tool that enables you to view and analyze your costs and usage. You can
explore your usage and costs using the main graph, the Cost Explorer cost and usage
reports, or the Cost Explorer RI reports. You can also ask questions about your costs
using suggested prompts or the Ask question button to ask in your own words, and receive
detailed insights in Amazon Q Developer while Cost Explorer automatically updates its charts,
tables, and report parameters including filters, groupings, and dates to reflect the analysis.
For a deeper dive, choose Analyze with Amazon Q on any cost report to receive comprehensive explanations covering your cost trends, top drivers, and anomalies based on your exact filters and time period.
You can view data for up to the last 13 months, forecast how much you're likely to spend for
the next 18 months, and get recommendations for what Reserved Instances to purchase. You can
use Cost Explorer to identify areas that need further inquiry and see trends that you can
use to understand your costs.

You can view your costs and usage using the Cost Explorer user interface free of charge.
You can also access your data programmatically using the Cost Explorer API. Each paginated
API request incurs a charge of $0.01. You can't disable Cost Explorer after you enable
it.

In addition, Cost Explorer provides preconfigured views that display at-a-glance
information about your cost trends and give you a head start on customizing views that suit
your needs.

When you first sign up for Cost Explorer, AWS prepares the data about your costs for
the current month and the last 13 months, and then calculates the forecast for the next 18
months. The current month's data is available for viewing in about 24 hours. The rest of
your data takes a few days longer. Cost Explorer refreshes your cost data at least once
every 24 hours. However, this depends on your upstream data from your billing applications,
and some data might be updated later than 24 hours. After you sign up, Cost Explorer by
default can display up to 13 months of historical data (if you have that much), the current
month, and the forecasted costs for the next 18 months. The first time that you use
Cost Explorer, Cost Explorer walks you through the main parts of the console with an
explanation for each section.

Cost Explorer uses the same dataset that is used to generate the AWS Cost and Usage Reports and the
detailed billing reports. For a comprehensive review of the data, you can download it into a
comma-separated value (CSV) file.

Topics

- Enabling Cost Explorer

- Getting started with Cost Explorer

- Exploring your data using Cost Explorer

- Asking questions about your costs using Amazon Q Developer

- Comparing your costs between time periods

- Exploring more data for advanced cost analysis

- Using the AWS Cost Explorer API
