URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/systems-manager/latest/userguide/session-manager-prerequisites.html
TITLE: Step 1: Complete Session Manager prerequisites - AWS Systems Manager

# Step 1: Complete Session Manager prerequisites

Before using Session Manager, make sure your environment meets the following
requirements.

Session Manager prerequisites

Requirement

Description

Supported operating systems

Session Manager supports connecting to Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) instances,
in addition to non-EC2 machines in your hybrid and multicloud
environment.

Session Manager supports the following operating system
versions:

Linux and macOS

Session Manager supports all the versions of Linux and
macOS that are supported by AWS Systems Manager. For information, see
Supported operating systems and machine types.

Windows

Session Manager supports Windows Server 2012 and later versions.

Note

Microsoft Windows Server 2016 Nano isn't supported.

SSM Agent

At minimum, AWS Systems Manager SSM Agent version 2.3.68.0 or
later must be installed on the managed nodes you want to connect
to through sessions.

To use the option to encrypt session data using a key created
in AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS), version 2.3.539.0 or later of SSM Agent
must be installed on the managed node.

To use shell profiles in a session, SSM Agent version 3.0.161.0
or later must be installed on the managed node.

To start a Session Manager port forwarding or SSH session, SSM Agent
version 3.0.222.0 or later must be installed on the managed
node.

To stream session data using Amazon CloudWatch Logs, SSM Agent version
3.0.284.0 or later must be installed on the managed node.

For information about how to determine the version number
running on an instance, see Checking the SSM Agent version number. For information
about manually installing or automatically updating SSM Agent,
see Working with SSM Agent.

About the ssm-user account

Starting with version 2.3.50.0 of SSM Agent, the agent
creates a user account on the managed node, with root or
administrator permissions, called ssm-user. (On
versions before 2.3.612.0, the account is created when
SSM Agent starts or restarts. On version 2.3.612.0 and later,
ssm-user is created the first time a
session starts on the managed node.) Sessions are launched
using the administrative credentials of this user account.
For information about restricting administrative control for
this account, see Turn off or turn on ssm-user account administrative permissions.

ssm-user on Windows Server domain controllers

Beginning with SSM Agent version 2.3.612.0, the
ssm-user account isn't created
automatically on managed nodes that are used as Windows Server
domain controllers. To use Session Manager on a Windows Server machine
being used as a domain controller, you must create the
ssm-user account manually if it isn't
already present, and assign Domain Administrator permissions
to the user. On Windows Server, SSM Agent sets a new password for
the ssm-user account each time a session
starts, so you don't need to specify a password when you
create the account.

Connectivity to endpoints

The managed nodes you connect to must also allow HTTPS (port
443) outbound traffic to the following endpoints:

- ec2messages.region.amazonaws.com

- ssm.region.amazonaws.com

- ssmmessages.region.amazonaws.com

For more information, see the following topics:

- Reference: ec2messages, ssmmessages, and other API operations

- How do I create VPC endpoints so that I can use
Systems Manager to manage private EC2 instances without
internet access? in the AWS re:Post Knowledge Center.

Alternatively, you can connect to the required endpoints by
using interface endpoints. For more information, see Step 6: (Optional) Use AWS PrivateLink to set up a VPC endpoint for Session Manager.

AWS CLI

(Optional) If you use the AWS Command Line Interface (AWS CLI) to start your
sessions (instead of using the AWS Systems Manager console or Amazon EC2
console), version 1.16.12 or later of the CLI must be
installed on your local machine.

You can call aws --version to check the
version.

If you need to install or upgrade the CLI, see Installing the
AWS Command Line Interface in the AWS Command Line Interface User Guide.

Important

An updated version of SSM Agent is released whenever new tools are added to Systems Manager or
updates are made to existing tools. Failing to use the latest version of the agent can
prevent your managed node from using various Systems Manager tools and features. For that reason, we
recommend that you automate the process of keeping SSM Agent up to date on your machines. For
information, see Automating updates to SSM Agent. Subscribe to the SSM Agent
Release Notes page on GitHub to get notifications about SSM Agent
updates.

In addition, to use the CLI to manage your nodes with
Session Manager, you must first install the Session Manager plugin on your local
machine. For information, see Install the Session Manager plugin for the AWS CLI.

Verify IAM service role permissions (hybrid and multicloud
environments)

Hybrid-activated nodes use the AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) service role
specified in the hybrid activation to communicate with Systems Manager API
operations. This service role must contain the permissions
required to connect to your hybrid and multicloud machines using Session Manager.
If your service role contains the AWS managed policy
AmazonSSMManagedInstanceCore , the required
permissions for Session Manager are already provided.

If you find that the service role does not contain the
required permissions, you must deregister the managed instance
and register it with a new hybrid activation that uses an IAM
service role with the required permissions. For more information
about deregistering managed instances, see Deregistering managed nodes in a hybrid and multicloud environment. For
more information about creating IAM policies with Session Manager
permissions, see Step 2: Verify or add instance permissions for Session Manager.
