URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/waf-policies-rule-groups.html
TITLE: Rule group management for AWS WAF policies - AWS WAF, AWS Firewall Manager, AWS Shield Advanced, and AWS Shield network security director

Introducing a new console experience for AWS WAF

You can now use the updated experience to access AWS WAF functionality anywhere in the console.
For more details, see Working with the console.

# Rule group management for AWS WAF policies

The web ACLs that are managed by Firewall Manager AWS WAF policies contain three sets of rules. These
sets provide a higher level of prioritization for the rules and rule groups in the web
ACL:

- First rule groups, defined by you in the Firewall Manager AWS WAF policy. AWS WAF evaluates these rule groups
first.

- Rules and rule groups that are defined by the account managers in the web ACLs. AWS WAF
evaluates any account-managed rules or rule groups next.

- Last rule groups, defined by you in the Firewall Manager AWS WAF policy. AWS WAF evaluates these rule groups
last.

Within each of these sets of rules, AWS WAF evaluates rules and rule groups as usual,
according to their priority settings within the set.

In the policy's first and last rule groups sets, you can only add rule groups and not individual rules. You can use
managed rule groups, which AWS Managed Rules and AWS Marketplace sellers create and maintain for you. You can
also manage and use your own rule groups. For more information about all of these
options, see AWS WAF rule groups.

If you want to use your own rule groups, you create those before you create your Firewall Manager AWS WAF
policy. For guidance, see Managing your own rule groups. To use an individual custom rule,
you must define your own rule group, define your rule within that, and then use the rule
group in your policy.

The first and last AWS WAF rule groups that you manage through Firewall Manager have names
that begin with PREFMManaged- or POSTFMManaged-,
respectively, followed by the Firewall Manager policy name, and the rule group creation
timestamp, in UTC milliseconds. For example,
PREFMManaged-MyWAFPolicyName-1621880555123.

For information about how AWS WAF evaluates web requests, see Using protection packs (web ACLs) with rules and rule groups in AWS WAF.

Firewall Manager enables sampling and Amazon CloudWatch metrics for the rule groups that you define for the
AWS WAF policy.

Individual account owners have complete control over the metrics and sampling
configuration for any rule or rule group that they add to the policy's managed web
ACLs.

Note

If you don't have a subscription to AWS WAF marketplace rule groups in your member account, Firewall Manager can't propagate custom or managed rule groups to that account.
