URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/quick/latest/userguide/threshold-alerts.html
TITLE: Working with threshold alerts in Amazon Quick Sight - Amazon Quick

# Working with threshold alerts in Amazon Quick Sight

Applies
to: Enterprise Edition

To stay informed about important changes in your data, you can create threshold alerts
using KPI, Gauge, Table, and Pivot table visuals in an Amazon Quick Sight dashboard. With these
alerts, you can set thresholds for your data and be notified by email when your data
crosses them. You can also view and manage your alerts at anytime in a Quick Sight
supported web browser.

For example, let's say that you're a customer success manager for a large
organization and you want to know when the number of tickets in a support queue exceeds
a certain number. Let's say too that you have a dashboard with a KPI, Gauge, Table or
Pivot table visual that tracks the number of tickets in this queue. In this case, you
can create an alert and be notified by email when the number exceeds the threshold you
specified. That way, you can take action as soon as you're notified.

You can create multiple alerts for a single visual. If the visual is updated or
deleted by the author after you create an alert, your alert settings don't change.
When you create an alert, the alert takes on any filters applied to the visual at that
time. If you or the author changes the filter, your existing alert doesn't change.
However, if you create a new alert, your new alert takes on the new filter
settings.

For example, let's say you have a dashboard with a filter control that you can
use to switch the data for each visual in the dashboard from one US city to another. You
have a KPI visual on the dashboard that shows average flight delays, and you're
interested in delays for flights leaving from Seattle, Washington, in the US. You change
the filter control to Seattle and set an alert on the visual. This alert tracks flight
delays from Seattle. Tomorrow, let's say that you want to also track flight delays
from Portland, Oregon, so you change the filter control to Portland and create another
alert. This new alert tracks flight delays from Portland. You now have two alerts, one
on Seattle and one on Portland, working independently.

Threshold alerts are not available in the eu-central-2
Europe (Zurich) region.

For more information on KPI, Gauge, Table, or Pivot table visuals, see Visual types in Amazon Quick Sight.

Note

You can't create alerts for visuals in an embedded dashboard or from the
Quick mobile app.

For table visuals, threshold alerts can't be created for values that are
located in the Group by field well. Alerts can only be created for
values that are located in the Value field well.

KPI visuals that don't use a date-time field as a trend don't support
alerts. An example is a KPI that shows the difference in flights between carriers X
and Y instead of a KPI that shows the difference in flights between dates A and B.

Use the sections below to create and configure threshold alerts for KPI, Gauge, Table,
and Pivot table visuals in Quick Sight.

Topics

- Alert Permissions

- Creating Alerts

- Managing Threshold Alerts

- Investigating Alert Failures

- Alert Scheduling

- Using Quick connectors in threshold alerts
