URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/waf-rule-statement-type-rate-based-high-level-settings.html
TITLE: Rate-based rule high-level settings in AWS WAF - AWS WAF, AWS Firewall Manager, AWS Shield Advanced, and AWS Shield network security director

Introducing a new console experience for AWS WAF

You can now use the updated experience to access AWS WAF functionality anywhere in the console.
For more details, see Working with the console.

# Rate-based rule high-level settings in AWS WAF

A rate-based rule statement uses the following high level settings:

- Evaluation window – The amount of time, in seconds, that AWS WAF
should include in its request counts, looking back from the current time. For example,
for a setting of 120, when AWS WAF checks the rate, it counts the requests for the 2 minutes immediately preceding
the current time. Valid settings are 60 (1 minute), 120 (2 minutes), 300 (5 minutes), and 600 (10 minutes), and 300 (5 minutes) is the default.

This setting doesn't determine how often
AWS WAF checks the rate, but how far back it looks each time it checks.
AWS WAF checks the rate frequently, with timing that's independent of the evaluation window setting.

- Rate limit – The maximum number of requests
matching your criteria that AWS WAF should just track for the specified
evaluation window. The lowest limit setting allowed is
10. When this limit is breached, AWS WAF applies the rule
action setting to additional requests matching your criteria.

AWS WAF applies rate limiting near the
limit that you set, but does not guarantee an exact limit match. For more
information, see Rate-based rule caveats.

- Request aggregation – The aggregation criteria to
use on the web requests that the rate-based rule counts and rate limits. The rate limit
that you set applies to each aggregation instance. For details, see
Aggregating rate-based rules and Aggregation instances and counts.

- Action – The action to take on requests that the
rule rate limits. You can use
any rule action except Allow. This is set at the rule level as usual, but has some
restrictions and behaviors that are specific to rate-based rules. For general information about rule
actions, see Using rule actions in AWS WAF. For information specific to rate limiting, see Applying rate limiting to requests in AWS WAF in
this section.

- Scope of inspection and rate limiting
– You can narrow the scope of the requests that the rate-based statement
tracks and rate limits by adding a scope-down statement. If you specify a
scope-down statement, the rule only aggregates, counts, and rate limits requests
that match the scope-down statement. If you choose the request aggregation
option Count all, then the scope-down statement is
required. For more information about scope-down statements, see Using scope-down
statements.

- (Optional) Forwarded IP configuration – This is
only used if you specify IP address in header in your
request aggregation, either alone or as part of the custom keys settings. AWS WAF
retrieves the first IP address in the specified header and uses that as the
aggregation value. A common header for this purpose is
X-Forwarded-For, but you can specify any header. For more
information, see Using forwarded IP
addresses.
