URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/waf-rule-statement-type-rate-based-request-limiting.html
TITLE: Applying rate limiting to requests in AWS WAF - AWS WAF, AWS Firewall Manager, AWS Shield Advanced, and AWS Shield network security director

Introducing a new console experience for AWS WAF

You can now use the updated experience to access AWS WAF functionality anywhere in the console.
For more details, see Working with the console.

# Applying rate limiting to requests in AWS WAF

This section explains how rate limiting behavior works for rate-based rules.

The criteria that AWS WAF uses to rate limit requests for a rate-based rule
is the same criteria that AWS WAF uses to aggregate requests for the rule.
If you define a scope-down statement for the rule, AWS WAF only aggregates, counts,
and rate limits requests that match the scope-down statement.

The match criteria that causes a rate-based rule to apply its rule action settings
to a specific web request are as follows:

- The web request matches the rule's scope-down statement, if one is
defined.

- The web request belongs to an aggregation instance whose request count is
currently over the rule's limit.

How AWS WAF applies the rule action

When a rate-based rule applies rate limiting to a request, it applies the rule action and, if
you've defined any custom handling or labeling in your action specification, the
rule applies those. This request handling is the same as the way a match rule
applies its action settings to matching web requests. A rate-based rule only
applies labels or performs other actions on requests that it is actively rate
limiting.

You can use any rule action except Allow. For general information about rule
actions, see Using rule actions in AWS WAF.

The following list describes how rate limiting works for each of the
actions.

- Block – AWS WAF blocks the request and
applies any custom blocking behavior that you've defined.

- Count – AWS WAF counts the request, applies any
custom headers or labels that you've defined, and continues the protection pack (web ACL) evaluation of the
request.

This action doesn't limit the rate of requests. It just counts the requests that are
over the limit.

- CAPTCHA or Challenge – AWS WAF
handles the request either like a Block or like a Count,
depending on the state of the request's token.

This action doesn't limit the rate of requests that have valid tokens. It limits the
rate of requests that are over the limit and are also missing valid
tokens.

- If the request doesn't have a valid, unexpired token, the action blocks
the request and sends the CAPTCHA puzzle or the browser challenge back to
the client.

If the end user or client browser responds successfully, the client receives a
valid token and it automatically resends the original request. If
rate limiting for the aggregation instance is still in effect, this
new request with the valid, unexpired token will have the action
applied to it as described in the next bullet point.

- If the request has a valid, unexpired token, the CAPTCHA or Challenge
action verifies the token and takes no action on the request,
similar to the Count action. The rate-based rule returns the
request evaluation back to the protection pack (web ACL) without taking any
terminating action, and the protection pack (web ACL) continues its evaluation of the
request.

For additional information, see CAPTCHA and Challenge in AWS WAF.

If you rate limit only the IP address or forwarded IP address

When you configure the rule to rate limit only IP address for forwarded IP address,
you can retrieve the list of IP addresses that the rule
is currently rate limiting. If you're using a scope-down statement, the requests
that are rate limited are only those in the IP list that match the scope-down
statement. For information about retrieving the IP address list, see Listing IP addresses that are being rate limited by rate-based rules.
