URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/singlesignon/latest/userguide/revoke-user-permissions.html
TITLE: Revoke user access - AWS IAM Identity Center

# Revoke user access

The following is a general procedure for revoking an active permission set
session for an IAM Identity Center user. The procedure assumes that you want to remove all access
for a user who has compromised credentials or for a bad actor who is in the system.
The prerequisite is to have followed the guidance in Prepare to revoke an active IAM role session created by a permission set.
We assume that the deny all policy is present in a service control policy (SCP).

Note

AWS recommends you build automation to handle all steps except console-only
operations.

- Obtain the user ID of the person whose access you
must revoke. You can use the identity store APIs to find the
user by their username.

- Update the Deny policy to add the user ID from step
1 in your service control policy (SCP). After completing this
step, the target user loses access and is unable to take actions with any
roles that the policy affects.

- Remove all permission set assignments for the
user. If access is assigned through group memberships, remove
the user from all groups and all direct permission set assignments. This
step prevents the user from assuming any additional IAM roles. If a user
has an active AWS access portal session and you disable the user, they can
continue to assume new roles until you remove their access.

- Remove all IAM role assignments for the user in account access
manager. If access is assigned through group memberships, remove the
user from all groups and all direct IAM role assignments. This step
prevents the user from assuming any additional IAM roles managed in
account access manager. If a user has an active AWS account access
portal session and you disable the user, they can continue to assume new
roles until you remove their access.

- If you use an identity provider (IdP) or Microsoft
Active Directory as an identity source, disable the user in the identity
source. Disabling the user prevents the creation of additional
AWS access portal sessions. Use your IdP or Microsoft Active Directory API
documentation to learn how to automate this step. If you are using the IAM Identity Center
directory as an identity source, do not disable user access yet. You'll
disable user access in step 7.

- In the IAM Identity Center console, find the user and delete their
active session.

- Choose Users.

- Choose the user whose active session you want to delete.

- On the user's detail page, choose the Active sessions
tab.

- Select the check boxes next to the sessions you want to delete and
choose Delete session.

After deleting a user session, the user will immediately lose access to
the AWS access portal. Learn about session
duration.

- In the IAM Identity Center console, disable user access.

- Choose Users.

- Choose the user whose access you want to disable.

- On the user's detail page, expand General
information and choose the Disable user
access button to prevent further logins of the user.

- Leave the Deny policy in place for at least 12
hours. Otherwise, the user with an active IAM role session
will have restored actions with the IAM role. If you wait 12 hours, active
sessions expire and the user will not be able to access the IAM role
again.

Important

If you disable a user’s access before stopping the user session (you completed
step 7 without completing step 6), you can no longer stop the user session
through the IAM Identity Center console. If you inadvertently disable user access before
stopping the user session, you can re-enable the user, stop their session, and
then disable their access again.

You can now change the user's credentials if their password was compromised and
restore their assignments.
