URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/guardduty/latest/ug/compromised-creds.html
TITLE: Remediating potentially compromised AWS credentials - Amazon GuardDuty

# Remediating potentially compromised AWS credentials

When GuardDuty generates IAM finding types, it indicates that your AWS credentials
have been compromised. The potentially compromised Resource type is
AccessKey.

To remediate potentially compromised credentials in
your AWS environment, perform the following steps:

- Identify the potentially compromised IAM entity and
the API call used.

The API call used will be listed as API in the finding details.
The IAM entity (either an IAM role or user) and its identifying information
will be listed in the Resource section of the finding
details. The type of IAM entity involved can be determined by the
User Type field, the name of the IAM entity will be
in the User name field. The type of IAM entity involved
in the finding can also be determined by the Access key ID
used.

For keys beginning with AKIA:

This type of key is a long term customer-managed credential
associated with an IAM user or AWS account root user. For information about
managing access keys for IAM users, see Managing access keys for IAM users.

For keys beginning with ASIA:

This type of key is a short term temporary credential generated by
AWS Security Token Service. These keys exists for only a short time and cannot be
viewed or managed in the AWS Management Console. IAM roles will
always use AWS STS credentials, but they can also be generated for IAM
Users, for more information on AWS STS see IAM: Temporary security credentials.

If a role was used the User name field will
indicate the name of the role used. You can determine how the key
was requested with AWS CloudTrail by examining the
sessionIssuer element of the CloudTrail log entry, for
more information see IAM and AWS STS information in CloudTrail.

- Review permissions for the IAM
entity.

Open the IAM console. Depending on the type of the entity used, choose the
Users or Roles tab, and locate the
affected entity by typing the identified name into the search field. Use the
Permission and Access Advisor tabs
to review effective permissions for that entity.

- Determine whether the IAM entity credentials were used
legitimately.

Contact the user of the credentials to determine if the activity was
intentional.

For example, find out if the user did the following:

- Invoked the API operation that was listed in the GuardDuty finding

- Invoked the API operation at the time that is listed in the GuardDuty
finding

- Invoked the API operation from the IP address that is listed in the
GuardDuty finding

If this activity is a legitimate use of the AWS credentials, you can ignore the
GuardDuty finding. The https://console.aws.amazon.com/guardduty/ console allows you to set up rules to entirely
suppress individual findings so that they no longer appear. For more information, see
Suppression rules in GuardDuty.

If you can't confirm if this activity is a legitimate use, it could be the result of a
compromise to the particular access key - the IAM user's sign-in credentials, or
possibly the entire AWS account. If you suspect your credentials have been
compromised, review the information in My AWS account may be compromised to remediate this issue.
