URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/ddos-advanced-summary.html
TITLE: AWS Shield Advanced overview - AWS WAF, AWS Firewall Manager, AWS Shield Advanced, and AWS Shield network security director

Introducing a new console experience for AWS WAF

You can now use the updated experience to access AWS WAF functionality anywhere in the console.
For more details, see Working with the console.

# AWS Shield Advanced overview

AWS Shield Advanced is a managed service that helps you protect your application against
external threats, like DDoS attacks, volumetric bots, and vulnerability exploitation
attempts. For higher levels of protection against attacks, you can subscribe to
AWS Shield Advanced.

When you subscribe to Shield Advanced and add protection to your resources, Shield Advanced provides
expanded DDoS attack protection for those resources. The protections that you receive
from Shield Advanced can vary depending on your architecture and configuration choices. Use the
information in this guide to build and protect resilient applications using Shield Advanced,
and to escalate when you need expert help.

Shield Advanced subscriptions and AWS WAF costs

Your Shield Advanced subscription covers the costs of using standard AWS WAF capabilities for resources that you protect with Shield Advanced. The standard AWS WAF fees that are covered by your Shield Advanced protections are the
cost per protection pack (web ACL), the cost per rule, and the base price per million requests for web request inspection, up to 1,500 WCUs and up to the default body size.

Enabling Shield Advanced automatic application layer DDoS mitigation adds a rule group to your protection pack (web ACL) that uses 150 web ACL capacity units
(WCUs). These WCUs count against the WCU usage in your protection pack (web ACL). For more information, see Automating application layer DDoS mitigation with Shield Advanced, Protecting the application layer with the Shield Advanced rule group, and Web ACL capacity units (WCUs) in AWS WAF.

Your subscription to Shield Advanced does not cover the use of AWS WAF for resources that you do not protect using Shield Advanced. It also does not cover any additional non-standard AWS WAF costs for protected resources. Examples of non-standard AWS WAF costs are those for Bot Control, for the CAPTCHA rule action, for web ACLs that use more than 1,500 WCUs, and for inspecting the request body beyond the default body size. The full list is provided on the AWS WAF pricing page. Your subscription to Shield Advanced includes access to the Layer 7 Anti-DDoS Amazon Managed Rule group. As part of your subscription, you will get up to 50 billion requests to Shield Advanced protected AWS WAF resources in a calendar month. Requests beyond 50 billion will be billed as per the AWS Shield Advanced pricing page.

For full information and pricing examples, see Shield Pricing and AWS WAF Pricing.

Shield Advanced subscription billing

If you’re an AWS Channel Reseller, talk to your account team for information and guidance. This billing information is for customers that are not AWS Channel Resellers.

For all others, the following subscription and billing guidelines apply:

- For accounts that are members of an AWS Organizations organization, AWS bills the Shield Advanced
subscriptions against the payer account for the organization, regardless of whether the payer
account itself is subscribed.

- When you subscribe multiple accounts that are in the same AWS Organizations
consolidated billing account family, one subscription price covers all
subscribed accounts in the family. The organization must own all of the AWS accounts
and all of their resources.

- When you subscribe multiple accounts for multiple organizations, you can still pay one
subscription fee across all of the organizations, accounts, and resources providing you
own all of them. Contact your account manager or AWS support and request a fee waiver
on the AWS Shield Advanced subscription charges for all but one of the organizations.

For detailed pricing information and examples, see AWS Shield Pricing.

Topics
