URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/nat-gateway-basics.html
TITLE: NAT gateway basics - Amazon Virtual Private Cloud

# NAT gateway basics

Each NAT gateway is created in a specific Availability Zone and implemented with
redundancy in that zone. There is a quota on the number of NAT gateways that you can
create in each Availability Zone. For more information, see Gateways.

If you have resources in multiple Availability Zones and they share one NAT gateway, and
if the NAT gateway's Availability Zone is down, resources in the other Availability Zones lose
internet access. To improve resiliency, create a NAT gateway in each Availability Zone, and
configure your routing to ensure that resources use the NAT gateway in the same Availability
Zone.

The following characteristics and rules apply to NAT gateways:

- A NAT gateway supports the following protocols: TCP, UDP, and ICMP.

- NAT gateways are supported for IPv4 or IPv6 traffic. For IPv6 traffic, NAT gateway performs NAT64.
By using this in conjunction with DNS64 (available on Route 53 resolver), your IPv6 workloads in a subnet in Amazon VPC can
communicate with IPv4 resources. These IPv4 services may be present in the same VPC (in a separate subnet) or a different VPC,
on your on-premises environment or on the internet.

- A NAT gateway supports 5 Gbps of bandwidth and automatically scales up to
100 Gbps. If you require more bandwidth, you can split your resources into multiple
subnets and create a NAT gateway in each subnet.

- A NAT gateway can process one million packets per second and automatically scales up
to 10 million packets per second. Beyond this limit, a NAT gateway will drop packets. To
prevent packet loss, split your resources into multiple subnets and create a separate NAT
gateway for each subnet.

- Each IPv4 address can support up to 55,000 simultaneous connections to each unique
destination. A unique destination is identified by a unique combination of destination IP
address, the destination port, and protocol (TCP/UDP/ICMP). You can increase this limit by
associating up to 8 IPv4 addresses to your NAT gateways (1 primary IPv4 address and 7
secondary IPv4 addresses). You are limited to associating 2 Elastic IP addresses to your
public NAT gateway by default. You can increase this limit by requesting a quota
adjustment. For more information, see Elastic IP addresses.

- When you create a NAT gateway, you can select the primary private IPv4 address
to assign to the NAT gateway. Otherwise, we select one on your behalf from the
the IPv4 address range of the subnet. You can't change or remove the primary
private IPv4 address. You can add secondary private IPv4 addresses as needed.

- You can't associate a security group with a NAT gateway. You can associate
security groups with your instances to control inbound and outbound traffic.

- We create a requester-managed network interface for your NAT gateway. You can view
this network interface using the Amazon EC2 console. Search for the ID of the NAT gateway in
the description. You can add tags to the network interface, but you can't modify other
properties of this network interface.

- You can use a network ACL to control the traffic to and from the subnet for
your NAT gateway. NAT gateways use ports 1024–65535. For more information, see
Network ACLs.

- You can't route traffic to a NAT gateway through a VPC peering connection. However, traffic from a NAT gateway through VPC peering to destinations in peered VPCs supports "Return to Sender" behavior - return traffic is automatically routed back to the originating NAT gateway even without return routes configured in the destination VPC. This behavior is specific to NAT gateways and does not apply to standard EC2 instances. To prevent this, use NACLs to block the return traffic.

Not supported:

Client → Peering → NAT → Internet

Supported:

Client → NAT → Peering → Destination

- You can't route traffic to a NAT gateway from Site-to-Site VPN or Direct Connect using a virtual
private gateway. You can route traffic to a NAT gateway from Site-to-Site VPN or Direct Connect if
you use a transit gateway instead of a virtual private gateway.

- NAT gateways support traffic with a maximum transmission unit (MTU) of 8500,
but it's important to note the following:

- The MTU of a network connection is the size, in bytes, of the largest permissible
packet that can be passed over the connection. The larger the MTU of a connection, the
more data that can be passed in a single packet.

- Packets larger than 8500 bytes that arrive at the NAT gateway are dropped (or
fragmented, if applicable).

- To prevent potential packet loss when communicating with resources over the
internet using a public NAT gateway, the MTU setting for your EC2 instances should not
exceed 1500 bytes. For more information about checking and setting the MTU on an
instance, see Network MTU for your
EC2 instance in the Amazon EC2 User Guide.

- NAT gateways support Path MTU Discovery (PMTUD) through FRAG_NEEDED ICMPv4 packets and Packet Too Big (PTB) ICMPv6 packets.

- NAT gateways enforce Maximum Segment Size (MSS) clamping for all packets. For more
information, see RFC879.
