URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/macie/latest/user/managed-data-identifiers.html
TITLE: Using managed data identifiers - Amazon Macie

# Using managed data identifiers

Amazon Macie uses a combination of criteria and techniques, including machine learning and
pattern matching, to detect sensitive data in Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) objects. These criteria and
techniques, collectively referred to as managed data
identifiers, can detect a large and growing list of sensitive data types for
many countries and regions, including multiple types of credentials data, financial
information, personal health information (PHI), and personally identifiable information
(PII). Each managed data identifier is designed to detect a specific type of sensitive
data—for example, AWS secret access keys, credit card numbers, or passport numbers
for a particular country or region.

Macie can detect the following categories of sensitive data by using managed data
identifiers:

- Credentials, for credentials data such as private keys and AWS secret access
keys.

- Financial information, for financial data such as credit card numbers and bank
account numbers.

- Personal information, for PHI such as health insurance and medical identification
numbers, and PII such as driver's license identification numbers and passport
numbers.

Within each category, Macie can detect multiple types of sensitive data. The topics in this
section list and describe each type and any relevant requirements for detecting it. For each
type, they also indicate the unique identifier (ID) for the managed data identifier that's
designed to detect the data. When you create a
sensitive data discovery job or configure settings for automated sensitive data discovery, you can use these IDs to specify which
managed data identifiers you want Macie to use when it analyzes S3 objects.

Topics

- Keyword requirements

- Quick reference by sensitive data
type

- Detailed reference by sensitive data
category

For a list of managed data identifiers that we recommend for jobs, see Managed data identifiers recommended for sensitive data discovery jobs. For a list of managed data
identifiers that we recommend and are used by default for automated sensitive data discovery, see Default settings for automated sensitive data discovery.
