URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cognito/latest/developerguide/cognito-identity.html
TITLE: Amazon Cognito identity pools - Amazon Cognito

# Amazon Cognito identity pools

An Amazon Cognito identity pool is a directory of federated identities that you can exchange for
AWS credentials. Identity pools generate temporary AWS credentials for the users of your
app, whether they’ve signed in or you haven’t identified them yet. With AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) roles
and policies, you can choose the level of permission that you want to grant to your users. Users
can start out as guests and retrieve assets that you keep in AWS services. Then they can sign
in with a third-party identity provider to unlock access to assets that you make available to
registered members. The third-party identity provider can be a consumer (social) OAuth 2.0
provider like Apple or Google, a custom SAML or OIDC identity provider, or a custom
authentication scheme, also called a developer provider, of
your own design.

Features of Amazon Cognito identity pools

Sign requests for AWS services

Sign API requests to AWS services like Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)
and Amazon DynamoDB. Analyze user activity with services like Amazon Pinpoint and Amazon CloudWatch.

Filter requests with resource-based policies

Exercise granular control over user access to your resources. Transform user claims
into IAM
session tags, and build IAM policies that grant resource access to distinct
subsets of your users.

Assign guest access

For your users who haven’t signed in yet, configure your identity pool to generate
AWS credentials with a narrow scope of access. Authenticate users through a single
sign-on provider to elevate their access.

Assign IAM roles based on user characteristics

Assign a single IAM role to all of your authenticated users, or choose the role
based on the claims of each user.

Accept a variety of identity providers

Exchange an ID or access token, a user pool token, a SAML assertion, or a
social-provider OAuth token for AWS credentials.

Validate your own identities

Perform your own user validation and use your developer AWS credentials to issue
credentials for your users.

You might already have an Amazon Cognito user pool that provides authentication and authorization
services to your app. You can set up your user pool as an identity provider (IdP) to your
identity pool. When you do, your users can authenticate through your user pool IdPs, consolidate
their claims into a common OIDC identity token, and exchange that token for AWS credentials.
Your user can then present their credentials in a signed request to your AWS services.

You can also present authenticated claims from any of your identity providers directly to
your identity pool. Amazon Cognito customizes user claims from SAML, OAuth, and OIDC providers into an
AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity API request for short-term credentials.

Amazon Cognito user pools are like OIDC identity providers to your SSO-enabled apps. Identity pools act as an
AWS identity provider to any app with resource
dependencies that work best with IAM authorization.

Amazon Cognito identity pools support the following identity providers:

- Public providers: Setting up Login with Amazon as an identity pools IdP, Setting up Facebook as an identity pools IdP, Setting up Google as an identity pool IdP, Setting up Sign in with Apple as an identity pool IdP, Twitter.

- Amazon Cognito user pools

- Setting up an OIDC provider as an identity pool IdP

- Setting up a SAML provider as an identity pool IdP

- Developer-authenticated identities

For information about Amazon Cognito identity pools Region availability, see AWS Service
Region Availability.

For more information about Amazon Cognito identity pools, see the following topics.

Topics

- Identity pools console overview

- Identity pools authentication flow

- IAM roles

- Security best practices for Amazon Cognito identity pools

- Using attributes for access control

- Using role-based access control

- Getting credentials

- Accessing AWS services with temporary credentials

- Identity pools third-party identity providers

- Developer-authenticated identities

- Switching unauthenticated users to authenticated users
