URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/secretsmanager/latest/userguide/rotate-secrets_managed.html
TITLE: Managed rotation for AWS Secrets Manager secrets - AWS Secrets Manager

# Managed rotation for AWS Secrets Manager secrets

Some services offer managed rotation, where the service configures
and manages rotation for you. With managed rotation, you don't use an AWS Lambda function to
update the secret and the credentials in the database.

The following services offer managed rotation:

- Amazon Aurora offers managed rotation for master user
credentials. For more information, see Password
management with Amazon Aurora and AWS Secrets Manager in the
Amazon Aurora User Guide.

- Amazon ECS Service Connect offers managed rotation for
AWS Private Certificate Authority TLS certificates. For more information, see TLS with Service
Connect in the Amazon Elastic Container Service Developer Guide.

- Amazon RDS offers managed rotation for master user
credentials. For more information, see Password management
with Amazon RDS and AWS Secrets Manager in the
Amazon RDS User Guide.

- Amazon DocumentDB offers managed rotation for master user
credentials. For more information, see Password management
with Amazon DocumentDB and AWS Secrets Manager in the
Amazon DocumentDB User Guide.

- Amazon Redshift offers managed rotation for admin
passwords. For more information, see Managing
Amazon Redshift admin passwords using AWS Secrets Manager in the Amazon Redshift
Management Guide.

- managed external secrets offers managed rotation for secrets held by
Secrets Manager partners. For more information, see Using AWS Secrets Manager managed external secrets to manage Third Party secrets.

Tip

For all other types of secrets, see Rotation by Lambda function.

Rotation for managed secrets typically completes within one minute. During rotation, new
connections that retrieve the secret may get the previous version of the credentials. In
applications, we strongly recommend that you follow the best practice of using a database
user created with the minimal privileges required for your application, rather than using
the master user. For application users, for highest availability, you can use the Alternating users rotation strategy.

For secrets held by Secrets Manager partners,

To change the schedule for managed rotation

- Open the managed secret in the Secrets Manager console. You can follow a link from the
managing service, or search for the
secret in the Secrets Manager console.

- Under Rotation schedule, enter your schedule in UTC
time zone in either the Schedule expression builder
or as a Schedule expression. Secrets Manager stores your schedule as a
rate() or cron()
expression. The rotation window automatically starts at midnight
unless you specify a Start time. You can rotate a secret as often as every four hours. For more
information, see Rotation schedules.

- (Optional) For Window duration, choose the length of
the window during which you want Secrets Manager to rotate your secret, for example
3h for a three hour window. The window must not
extend into the next rotation window. If you don't specify Window
duration, for a rotation schedule in hours, the
window automatically closes after one hour. For a rotation schedule in days, the
window automatically closes at the end of the day.

- Choose Save.

To change the schedule for managed rotation (AWS CLI)

- Call rotate-secret. The following example rotates the
secret between 16:00 and 18:00 UTC on the 1st and 15th day of the month. For more
information, see Rotation schedules.

aws secretsmanager rotate-secret \
--secret-id MySecret \
--rotation-rules \
"{\"ScheduleExpression\": \"cron(0 16 1,15 * ? *)\", \"Duration\": \"2h\"}"
