URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/kms/latest/developerguide/vpce-connect.html
TITLE: Connect to an AWS KMS VPC endpoint - AWS Key Management Service

# Connect to an AWS KMS VPC endpoint

You can connect to AWS KMS through the VPC endpoint by using an AWS SDK, the AWS CLI, or
AWS Tools for PowerShell. To specify the VPC endpoint, use its DNS name.

For example, this list-keys command
uses the endpoint-url parameter to specify the VPC endpoint. To use a command
like this, replace the example VPC endpoint ID with one in your account.

$ aws kms list-keys --endpoint-url https://vpce-1234abcdf5678c90a-09p7654s-us-east-1a.ec2.us-east-1.vpce.amazonaws.com

Required permissions

For an AWS KMS request that uses a VPC endpoint to be successful, the principal requires
permissions from two sources:

- A key policy, IAM
policy, or grant must give principal permission
to call the operation on the resource (KMS key or alias).

- A VPC endpoint policy must give the principal permission to use the endpoint to make
the request.

For example, a key policy might give a principal permission to call Decrypt on a particular KMS key. However,
the VPC endpoint policy might not allow that principal to call Decrypt on that
KMS key by using the endpoint.

Or a VPC endpoint policy might allow a principal to use the endpoint to call DisableKey on certain KMS keys. But if
the principal doesn't have those permissions from a key policy, IAM policy, or grant, the
request fails.

You can create a VPC endpoint policy when you create your endpoint, and you can change the
VPC endpoint policy at any time. Use the VPC management console, or the CreateVpcEndpoint or ModifyVpcEndpoint operations. You can
also create and change a VPC endpoint policy by using an AWS CloudFormation template.
For help using the VPC management console, see Create an interface
endpoint and Modifying an
interface endpoint in the AWS PrivateLink Guide.

Private hostnames

If you enabled private hostnames when you created your VPC endpoint, you do not need to
specify the VPC endpoint URL in your CLI commands or application configuration. The standard
AWS KMS DNS hostname resolves to your VPC endpoint. The AWS CLI and SDKs use this hostname by
default, so you can begin using the VPC endpoint to connect to an AWS KMS regional endpoint
without changing anything in your scripts and applications.

To use private hostnames, the enableDnsHostnames and
enableDnsSupport attributes of your VPC must be set to true. To
set these attributes, use the ModifyVpcAttribute operation. For details, see View and update DNS attributes for your
VPC in the Amazon VPC User Guide.
