URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/ddos-app-layer-rbr.html
TITLE: Protecting the application layer with AWS WAF rate-based rules and Shield Advanced - AWS WAF, AWS Firewall Manager, AWS Shield Advanced, and AWS Shield network security director

Introducing a new console experience for AWS WAF

You can now use the updated experience to access AWS WAF functionality anywhere in the console.
For more details, see Working with the console.

# Protecting the application layer with AWS WAF rate-based rules and Shield Advanced

This page explains how AWS WAF rate-based rules and Shield Advanced work together to create basic application layer protections.

When you use a rate-based rule with its default configuration, AWS WAF periodically
evaluates traffic for the prior 5-minute time window. AWS WAF blocks requests from any IP address that exceeds
the rule's threshold until the request rate drops down to an acceptable level. When you
configure a rate-based rule through Shield Advanced, configure its rate threshold to a value that's greater
than the normal traffic rate that you expect from any one source IP in any five
minute time window.

You might want to use more than one rate-based rule in a web ACL. For
example, you could have one rate-based rule for all traffic that has a high
threshold plus one or more additional rules that are configured to match
select parts of your web application and that have lower thresholds. For
example, you might match on the URI /login.html with a lower
threshold, to mitigate abuse against a login page.

You can configure a rate-based rule to use a different evaluation time window and to
aggregate requests by a number of request components, like header values, labels, and query arguments.
For more information, see Using rate-based rule statements in AWS WAF.

For additional information and guidance, see the security blog post The three most important AWS WAF rate-based rules.

Expanded configuration options through AWS WAF

The Shield Advanced console enables you to add a rate-based rule and configure it with
the basic, default settings. You can define additional configuration options by managing
your rate-based rules through AWS WAF. For example, you can configure the rule to
aggregate requests based on keys such as a forwarded IP address, a query string, and a label. You can also
add a scope-down statement to the rule to filter
out some requests from evaluation and rate limiting. For more information, see Using rate-based rule statements in AWS WAF.
