URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/whitepapers/latest/logical-separation/vpc-and-accompanying-features.html
TITLE: VPC and Accompanying Features - Logical Separation on AWS

This whitepaper is for historical reference only. Some content might be outdated and some links might not be available.

# VPC and Accompanying Features

Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) enables the creation of a
logically separate network enclave within the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud
(Amazon EC2) network that can house compute and storage resources. This environment can
be connected to a customer’s existing infrastructure through various means including a virtual
private network (VPN) connection over the Internet, or through AWS Direct Connect, a service that provides private connectivity into
the AWS Cloud. Use of a VPC provides organizations with flexibility, security, and complete
control of their network presence in the cloud. The customer controls the private environment
including IP addresses, subnets, network access control lists, security groups, operating
system firewalls, route tables, VPNs, and internet gateways. Amazon VPC provides robust logical
isolation of all customer resources, including their access paths to each other and with AWS
services.

Every packet flow on the network is individually authorized
against a rule to validate the correct source and destination
before it is transmitted and delivered. It is highly improbable
for information to arbitrarily pass between entities without
specifically being authorized by both the transmitting and
receiving entity. If a packet is being routed to a destination
without a rule that matches it, the packet is dropped. Reply
addresses must be valid or the packet is dropped. Moreover, while
address resolution protocol (ARP) packets trigger an authenticated
database look-up, ARP packets never hit the network as they are
not needed for discovery of the virtual network topology. This
means ARP spoofing is highly improbable on the AWS network. Also,
promiscuous mode does not reveal any traffic other than traffic
bound to and from the customer operating system. Customers can set
precise rules for traffic ingress and egress which allow for
increased connectivity flexibility, and enable more customer
control over traffic segmentation and routing.

VPC connectivity options include the ability for the customer to:

- Connect to the Internet using network address translation (NAT) for private subnets —
Private subnets can be used for instances that should not have direct access to or from
the Internet. Instances in a private subnet can access the Internet without exposing their
private IP address by routing their traffic through a NAT gateway in a public
subnet.

- Connect securely to the corporate data center — All traffic to
and from instances in a VPC can be routed to the customer’s
corporate data center over an industry standard, encrypted
IPsec hardware VPN connection.

- Connect privately to other VPCs — Peer VPCs together to share
resources across multiple virtual networks across multiple AWS
accounts.

- Privately connect internal services across different accounts
and VPCs within an AWS Organization, significantly simplifying
internal network architecture.

- Use
AWS
Transit Gateway as a single, unified central gateway
where connections can be created to many VPCs and on-premises
systems while being able to manage authentication and access
to the services with AWS IAM.

- Use VPC features like
AWS PrivateLink to create private connections to resources
outside of the customer’s VPC. These private connections do
not traverse the public Internet and can provide secure
connectivity between VPCs, AWS services, and on-premises
applications.

Additionally, all traffic within a VPC and inter-region peering is
transparently encrypted when using
supported
instance types. From an infrastructure standpoint, physical
network encryption is used by AWS to encrypt network traffic on
any link outside of AWS physical control such as between
data-centers.
