URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonq/latest/qdeveloper-ug/deployment-options.html
TITLE: Step 1: Choose a deployment option - Amazon Q Developer

# Step 1: Choose a deployment option

Before you can subscribe users, you'll need to decide which AWS account or accounts you'll
be working in. You'll need to make three key decisions:

- Decision 1: Where to enable IAM Identity Center – For more
information about IAM Identity Center, see What
is IAM Identity Center? in the AWS IAM Identity Center User Guide.

- Decision 2: Where to create the Amazon Q Developer profile
– For more information about the profile, see What is the Amazon Q Developer profile?.

- Decision 3: Where to subscribe workforce users –
For more information about subscriptions, see Amazon Q Developer Pro subscriptions.

Your specific combination of these three decisions constitutes your deployment
option.

Deployment options are described in the following table. Pick an option before moving on to
Step 2: Subscribe workforce users to Amazon Q Developer Pro.

The table uses the following terms:

- Standalone account — An AWS account that is
not part of an organization managed by AWS Organizations.

- Management account — An AWS account that is part of an
organization managed by AWS Organizations. It is the ultimate owner of the organization, and is
responsible for paying all charges accrued by the accounts in its organization.

- Member account — An AWS account, other than the management
account, that is part of an organization managed by AWS Organizations.

Deployment option

Description

Advantages

Disadvantages

Deployment option 1 (easiest): Deploy
in a standalone account

Use this option if you're an end user and you want to subscribe yourself
(and optionally, a small team of users) to quickly evaluate the features
of Amazon Q.

With this deployment option, in your standalone account, you:

- enable IAM Identity Center,

- create the Amazon Q Developer profile, and

- subscribe yourself (and team members).

For detailed instructions, see Subscribe users to Amazon Q Developer Pro in a standalone account.

Good for demos. You can try out Pro
tier features for yourself without having to do an enterprise-wide
implementation.

More features than personal accounts (Builder
IDs). For more information, see Limitations of Builder IDs.

Fewer features Because IAM Identity Center is
enabled in a standalone account, it is considered to be an
account instance, which has fewer features than
organization instances1.

Deployment option 2: Deploy in
management and member accounts

Use this option if you're an administrator of multiple users.

With this deployment option:

- In the management account, you
enable IAM Identity Center.

- In a member account,
you:

- create the Amazon Q Developer profile, and

- subscribe users.

For detailed instructions, see Subscribe users to Amazon Q Developer Pro in a member account.

More features. Because IAM Identity Center is
installed in a management account, it is considered to be an
organization instance, which has more features
than account instances2.

Distributed management. Subscription
management tasks are distributed across member accounts, which is a best
practice.

Complexity. Requires coordination
across accounts by multiple administrators.

Account restrictions. You can subscribe
users in a maximum of 20 accounts per AWS Region, per organization
managed by AWS Organizations. If your user base is spread across more than 20
accounts in the same Region under one organization, choose another
option.

Deployment option 3: Deploy in a member
account only

Use this option if you're an adminstrator of multiple users.

With this deployment option, in a member account, you:

- enable IAM Identity Center,

- create the Amazon Q Developer profile, and

- subscribe users.

For detailed instructions, see Subscribe users to Amazon Q Developer Pro in a member account.

Quick setup. Individual member account
administrators can deploy without waiting or needing approval for an
enterprise-wide implementation.

Flexibility for complex organizations.
Use this option when you don't have a unified identity provider or
identity store containing the entire user base that you want to subscribe
to the Pro tier.

Fewer features. Because IAM Identity Center is
enabled in a member account, it is considered to be an account
instance, which has fewer features than organization
instances1.

Deployment option 4: Deploy in a
management account only

Use this option if you're an adminstrator of multiple users.

With this deployment option, in the management account, you:

- enable IAM Identity Center,

- create the Amazon Q Developer profile,

- subscribe users, and

- optionally, share the Amazon Q Developer profile with member
accounts.

For detailed instructions, see Subscribe users to Amazon Q Developer Pro in a management account.

More features. Because IAM Identity Center is
installed in a management account, it is considered to be an
organization instance, which has more features
than account instances2.

Does not comply with best practices.
Because users are subscribed in the management account, and because of a
limitation in Amazon Q Developer where delegated
administration is not supported, management account
administrators must handle subscription management tasks. You cannot
follow the recommended practice of delegating tasks to member
accounts.

1 Account instances support fewer features than organization
instances. For example, account instances don't support permission sets, which means that
users cannot use their Pro tier subscriptions in the AWS Management Console, and
on AWS apps and websites. For a list of the limitations of account instances, see
Account instance considerations in the
AWS IAM Identity Center User Guide.

2 Organization instances offer a broader range of features
compared to account instances, encompassing all IAM Identity Center capabilities. For a list of features
supported by organization instances, see When to use an organization instance in the
AWS IAM Identity Center User Guide.
