URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ja_jp/whitepapers/latest/aws-security-incident-response-guide/collect-relevant-artifacts.html
TITLE: Collect relevant artifacts - AWS Security Incident Response Guide

# Collect relevant artifacts

With these characteristics in mind, and based on the relevant alerts and assessment of
impact and scope, you will need to collect the data that will be relevant to further
investigation and analysis. Various types and sources of data that might be relevant to
investigation, including service/control plane logs (CloudTrail, Amazon S3 data events, VPC Flow Logs), data (Amazon S3
metadata and objects), and resources (databases, Amazon EC2 instances).

Service/control plane logs can be collected for local analysis or, ideally, directly
queried using native AWS services (where applicable). Data (including metadata) can be
directly queried to obtain relevant information or to acquire the source objects; for
example, use the AWS CLI to acquire Amazon S3 bucket and object metadata and directly
acquire source objects. Resources need to be collected in a manner consistent
with the resource type and intended method of analysis. For example, databases
can be collected by creating a copy/snapshot of the system running the database,
creating a copy/snapshot of the entire database itself, or querying and extracting
certain data and logs from the database relevant to the investigation.

For Amazon EC2 instances, there is a specific set of data that should be collected and a
specific order to collection that should be performed in order to acquire and
preserve the most amount of data for analysis and investigation.

Specifically, the order for response to acquire and preserve the most amount of data from an Amazon EC2 instance is the following:

- Acquire instance metadata – Acquire instance metadata
relevant to the investigation and data queries (instance ID, type, IP address,
VPC/subnet ID, Region, Amazon Machine Image (AMI) ID, security groups attached, launch
time).

- Enable instance protections and tags – Enable
instance protections like termination protection, setting shutdown behavior to stop
(if set to terminate), disabling Delete on Termination attributes for the attached EBS
volumes, and applying appropriate tags for both visual denotation and use in possible
response automations (for example, upon applying a tag with name of Status and value
of Quarantine, perform forensic acquisition of data and isolate the instance).

- Acquire disk (EBS snapshots) – Acquire an EBS
snapshot of the attached EBS volumes. Each snapshot contains the information that you
need to restore your data (from the moment when the snapshot was taken) to a new EBS
volume. See the step to perform live response/artifact collection if you’re using
instance store volumes.

- Acquire memory – Because EBS snapshots only
capture data that has been written to your Amazon EBS volume, which might exclude data
that is stored or cached in memory by your applications or OS, it is imperative to
acquire a system memory image using an appropriate third-party open-source or
commercial tool in order to acquire available data from the system.

- (Optional) Perform live response/artifact
collection – Perform targeted data collection (disk/memory/logs) through
live response on the system only if disk or memory is unable to be acquired otherwise,
or there is a valid business or operational reason. Doing this will modify valuable
system data and artifacts.

- Decommission the instance – Detach the instance
from auto scaling groups, deregister the instance from load balancers, and adjust or
apply a pre-built instance profile with minimized or no permissions.

- Isolate or contain the instance – Verify that
the instance is effectively isolated from other systems and resources within the
environment by ending and preventing current and future connections to and from the
instance. Refer to the Containment section of this document for more
details.

- Responder’s choice – Based on the situation and
goals, select one of the following:

- Decommission and shut down the system (recommended).

Shut the system down once the available evidence has been acquired in order to
verify the most effective mitigation against a possible future impact to the environment by the instance.

- Continue running the instance within an isolated environment instrumented for monitoring.

Though it is not recommended as a standard approach, if a situation merits continued
observation of the instance (such as when additional data or indicators are needed to
perform comprehensive investigation and analysis of the instance), you might consider
shutting down the instance, creating an AMI of the instance, and re-launching the
instance in your dedicated forensics account within a sandbox environment that is
pre-instrumented to be completely isolated and configured with instrumentation to
facilitate continuous monitoring of the instance (for example, VPC Flow Logs or VPC
Traffic Mirroring).

Note

It is essential to capture memory before live response activities or system isolation or shutdown in order to capture available volatile (and valuable) data.
