URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/web-acl-default-action.html
TITLE: Setting the protection pack (web ACL) default action in AWS WAF - AWS WAF, AWS Firewall Manager, AWS Shield Advanced, and AWS Shield network security director

Introducing a new console experience for AWS WAF

You can now use the updated experience to access AWS WAF functionality anywhere in the console.
For more details, see Working with the console.

# Setting the protection pack (web ACL) default action in AWS WAF

This section explains how protection pack (web ACL) default actions work.

When you create and configure a protection pack (web ACL), you must set the protection pack (web ACL) default action. AWS WAF
applies this action to any web
request that makes it through all of the protection pack (web ACL)'s rule evaluations without having a
terminating action applied to it. A terminating action stops the protection pack (web ACL) evaluation of the request
and either lets it continue to your protected application or blocks it. For information about rule actions,
see Using rule actions in AWS WAF.

The protection pack (web ACL) default action must determine the final disposition of the web request, so it's a terminating action:

- Allow – If you want to allow most
users to access your website, but you want to block access to attackers whose
requests originate from specified IP addresses, or whose requests appear to
contain malicious SQL code or specified values, choose Allow for the default
action. Then, when you add rules to your protection pack (web ACL), add rules that identify and
block the specific requests that you want to block. With this action, you can
insert custom headers into the request before forwarding it to the protected
resource.

- Block – If you want to prevent most
users from accessing your website, but you want to allow access to users whose
requests originate from specified IP addresses, or whose requests contain
specified values, choose Block for the default action. Then when you add rules
to your protection pack (web ACL), add rules that identify and allow the specific requests that
you want to allow in. By default, for the Block action, the AWS resource
responds with an HTTP 403 (Forbidden) status code, but you can
customize the response.

For information about customizing requests and responses, see Customized web requests and responses in AWS WAF.

Your configuration of your own rules and rule groups depends in part on whether you
want to allow or block most web requests. For example, if you want to
allow most requests, you would set the protection pack (web ACL) default action
to Allow, and then add rules that identify web requests that you want to
block, such as the following:

- Requests that originate from IP addresses that are making an unreasonable
number of requests

- Requests that originate from countries that either you don't do business in or
are the frequent source of attacks

- Requests that include fake values in the User-agent header

- Requests that appear to include malicious SQL code

Managed rule group rules usually use the Block action, but not all do. For examples, some rules used for Bot Control
use the CAPTCHA and Challenge action settings. For information about managed rule
groups, see Using managed rule groups in AWS WAF.
