URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/waf-rule-statement-type-rate-based.html
TITLE: Using rate-based rule statements in AWS WAF - AWS WAF, AWS Firewall Manager, AWS Shield Advanced, and AWS Shield network security director

Introducing a new console experience for AWS WAF

You can now use the updated experience to access AWS WAF functionality anywhere in the console.
For more details, see Working with the console.

# Using rate-based rule statements in AWS WAF

This section explains what a rate-based rule statement is and how it works.

A rate-based rule counts incoming requests and rate limits requests when they are coming at
too fast a rate. The rule aggregates requests according to your criteria, and counts and
rate limits the aggregate groupings, based on the rule's evaluation window, request limit, and
action settings.

Note

You can also rate limit web requests using the targeted protection level
of the Bot Control AWS Managed Rules rule group. Using this managed rule group incurs additional fees. For more
information, see Options for rate limiting in rate-based rules and targeted Bot Control rules.

AWS WAF tracks and manages web requests separately for each instance of a rate-based rule
that you use. For example, if you provide the same rate-based rule settings in two web
ACLs, each of the two rule statements represents a separate instance of the rate-based
rule and each gets its own tracking and management by AWS WAF. If you define a rate-based
rule inside a rule group, and then use that rule group in multiple places, each use
creates a separate instance of the rate-based rule that gets its own tracking and
management by AWS WAF.

Not nestable – You can't nest this
statement type inside other statements. You can include it directly in a protection pack (web ACL)
or rule group.

Scope-down statement – This rule type can take a
scope-down statement, to narrow the scope of the requests that the rule tracks and rate
limits. The scope-down statement can be optional or required, depending on your other
rule configuration settings. The details are covered in this section. For general information about scope-down statements, see
Using scope-down statements in AWS WAF.

WCUs – 2, as a base cost. For each custom
aggregation key that you specify, add 30 WCUs. If you use a scope-down statement in the
rule, calculate and add the WCUs for that.

Where to find this rule statement

- Rule builder in your protection pack (web ACL), on the
console – Under Rule, for
Type, choose Rate-based
rule.

- API –
RateBasedStatement

Topics

- Rate-based rule high-level settings in AWS WAF

- Rate-based rule caveats in AWS WAF

- Aggregating rate-based rules in AWS WAF

- Rate-based rule aggregation instances and counts

- Applying rate limiting to requests in AWS WAF

- Rate-based rule examples in AWS WAF

- Listing IP addresses that are being rate limited by rate-based rules
