URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/ddos-app-layer-protections.html
TITLE: Protecting the application layer (layer 7) with AWS Shield Advanced and AWS WAF - AWS WAF, AWS Firewall Manager, AWS Shield Advanced, and AWS Shield network security director

Introducing a new console experience for AWS WAF

You can now use the updated experience to access AWS WAF functionality anywhere in the console.
For more details, see Working with the console.

# Protecting the application layer (layer 7) with AWS Shield Advanced and AWS WAF

This page explains how Shield Advanced and AWS WAF work together to protect resources
at the application layer (layer 7).

To protect your application layer resources with Shield Advanced, you start by associating an AWS WAF
web ACL with the resource and adding one or more rate-based rules to it. You can additionally enable automatic application layer DDoS mitigation, which causes Shield Advanced
to automatically create and manage web ACL rules on your behalf in response to DDoS attacks.

When you protect an application layer resource with Shield Advanced, Shield Advanced analyzes traffic over
time to establish and maintain baselines. Shield Advanced uses these baselines to detect
anomalies in traffic patterns that might indicate a DDoS attack. The point at which
Shield Advanced detects an attack depends on the traffic that Shield Advanced has been able to observe
prior to the attack and on the architecture you use for your web applications. The
architectural variations that can affect Shield Advanced behavior include the type of instance
you use, your instance size, and whether the instance type supports enhanced networking. You
can also configure Shield Advanced to automatically place mitigations for application layer
attacks.

Shield Advanced subscriptions and AWS WAF costs

Your Shield Advanced subscription covers the costs of using standard AWS WAF capabilities for resources that you protect with Shield Advanced. The standard AWS WAF fees that are covered by your Shield Advanced protections are the
cost per protection pack (web ACL), the cost per rule, and the base price per million requests for web request inspection, up to 1,500 WCUs and up to the default body size.

Enabling Shield Advanced automatic application layer DDoS mitigation adds a rule group to your protection pack (web ACL) that uses 150 web ACL capacity units
(WCUs). These WCUs count against the WCU usage in your protection pack (web ACL). For more information, see Automating application layer DDoS mitigation with Shield Advanced, Protecting the application layer with the Shield Advanced rule group, and Web ACL capacity units (WCUs) in AWS WAF.

Your subscription to Shield Advanced does not cover the use of AWS WAF for resources that you do not protect using Shield Advanced. It also does not cover any additional non-standard AWS WAF costs for protected resources. Examples of non-standard AWS WAF costs are those for Bot Control, for the CAPTCHA rule action, for web ACLs that use more than 1,500 WCUs, and for inspecting the request body beyond the default body size. The full list is provided on the AWS WAF pricing page. Your subscription to Shield Advanced includes access to the Layer 7 Anti-DDoS Amazon Managed Rule group. As part of your subscription, you will get up to 50 billion requests to Shield Advanced protected AWS WAF resources in a calendar month. Requests beyond 50 billion will be billed as per the AWS Shield Advanced pricing page.

For full information and pricing examples, see Shield Pricing and AWS WAF Pricing.

Topics

- List of factors that affect application layer event detection and mititgation with Shield Advanced

- Protecting the application layer with AWS WAF web ACLs and Shield Advanced

- Protecting the application layer with AWS WAF rate-based rules and Shield Advanced

- Automating application layer DDoS mitigation with Shield Advanced
