URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/waf/latest/developerguide/ddos-automatic-app-layer-response-bp.html
TITLE: Best practices for using automatic application layer DDoS mitigation - AWS WAF, AWS Firewall Manager, AWS Shield Advanced, and AWS Shield network security director

Introducing a new console experience for AWS WAF

You can now use the updated experience to access AWS WAF functionality anywhere in the console.
For more details, see Working with the console.

# Best practices for using automatic application layer DDoS mitigation

Adhere to the guidance provided in this section when you use
automatic mitigation.

General protections management

Follow these guidelines for planning and implementing your
automatic mitigation protections.

- Manage all of your automatic mitigation protections either
through Shield Advanced or, if you're using AWS Firewall Manager to manage your Shield Advanced
automatic mitigation settings, through Firewall Manager. Don't mix your use of
Shield Advanced and Firewall Manager to manage these protections.

- Manage similar resources using the same web ACLs and protection settings,
and manage dissimilar resources using different web ACLs. When Shield Advanced
mitigates a DDoS attack on a protected resource, it defines rules for the
web ACL that's associated with the resource and then tests the rules against
traffic of all resources that are associated with the web ACL. Shield Advanced will
only apply the rules if they don't negatively impact any of the associated
resources. For more information, see How Shield Advanced manages automatic mitigation.

- For Application Load Balancers that have all their internet traffic proxied through a Amazon CloudFront
distribution, only enable automatic mitigation on the CloudFront
distribution. The CloudFront distribution will always have the greatest number of
original traffic attributes, which Shield Advanced leverages to mitigate attacks.

Detection and mitigation optimization

Follow these guidelines to optimize the protections that automatic mitigation provides to protected resources. For
an overview of application layer detection and mitigation, see List of factors that affect application layer event detection and mititgation with Shield Advanced.

- Configure health checks for your protected resources and use them to enable health-based detection in your Shield Advanced protections. For guidance, see Health-based detection using health checks with Shield Advanced and Route 53.

- Enable automatic mitigation in Count mode until Shield Advanced has established a baseline for normal, historic traffic. Shield Advanced needs from 24 hours to 30 days to establish a baseline.

Establishing a baseline of normal traffic patterns requires the following:

- The association of a web ACL with the protected resource. You can use AWS WAF directly to
associate your web ACL or you can have Shield Advanced associate it when you enable the Shield Advanced
application layer protection and specify a web ACL to use.

- Normal traffic flow to your protected application. If your application
isn't experiencing normal traffic, such as before the application is launched or
if it lacks production traffic for extended periods of time, the historical data
can't be gathered.

Web ACL management

Follow these guidelines for managing the web ACLs that you use with
automatic mitigation.

- If you need to replace the web ACL that's associated with the protected resource, make the following changes in order:

- In Shield Advanced, disable automatic mitigation.

- In AWS WAF, disassociate the old web ACL and associate the new web ACL.

- In Shield Advanced, enable automatic mitigation.

Shield Advanced doesn't automatically transfer automatic mitigation from the old web ACL to the
new one.

- Don't delete any rule group rule from your web ACLs whose name starts with
ShieldMitigationRuleGroup.
If you do delete this rule group, you disable the
protections provided by Shield Advanced automatic mitigation for every
resource that's associated with the web ACL. Additionally, it can take
Shield Advanced some time to receive notice of the change and to update its
settings. During this time, the Shield Advanced console pages will provide
incorrect information.

For more information about the rule group, see Protecting the application layer with the Shield Advanced rule group.

- Don't modify the name of a rule group rule
whose name starts with ShieldMitigationRuleGroup.
Doing so can interfere with the
protections provided by Shield Advanced automatic mitigation
through the web ACL.

- When you create rules and rule groups, don't use names that start with
ShieldMitigationRuleGroup. This string is used by
Shield Advanced to manage your automatic mitigations.

- In your management of your web ACL rules, don't assign a priority setting
of 10,000,000. Shield Advanced assigns this priority
setting to its automatic mitigation rule group rule when it
adds it.

- Keep the ShieldMitigationRuleGroup rule prioritized so
that it runs when you want it to in relation to the other rules in your web
ACL. Shield Advanced adds the rule group rule to the web ACL with
priority 10,000,000, to run after your other
rules. If you use the AWS WAF console wizard to manage your web ACL, adjust
the priority settings as needed after you add rules to the web ACL.

- If you use AWS CloudFormation to manage your web ACLs, you don't need to manage the
ShieldMitigationRuleGroup rule group rule.
Follow the guidance at Using AWS CloudFormation with automatic application layer DDoS mitigation.
