URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/securityhub/latest/userguide/securityhub-insights.html
TITLE: Viewing insights in Security Hub CSPM - AWS Security Hub

# Viewing insights in Security Hub CSPM

In AWS Security Hub CSPM, an insight is a collection of related
findings. An insight can identify a specific security area that requires attention and
intervention. For example, an insight might point out EC2 instances that are the subject of
findings that detect poor security practices. An insight brings together findings from
across finding providers.

Each insight is defined by a group by statement and optional filters. The group by
statement indicates how to group the matching findings, and identifies the type of item that
the insight applies to. For example, if an insight is grouped by resource identifier, then
the insight produces a list of resource identifiers. The optional filters identify the
matching findings for the insight. For example, you might want to only see findings from
specific providers or findings that are associated with specific types of resources.

Security Hub CSPM offers several built-in managed insights. You can't modify or delete managed
insights. To track security issues that are unique to your AWS environment and usage, you can
create custom insights.

The Insights page on the AWS Security Hub CSPM console displays the list of available insights.

By default, the list displays both managed and custom insights. To filter the insight list
based on insight type, choose the insight type from the dropdown menu that is next to the
filter field.

- To display all of the available insights, choose All
insights. This is the default option.

- To display only managed insights, choose Security Hub CSPM managed
insights.

- To display only custom insights, choose Custom
insights.

You also can filter the insight list based on the insight's name. To do so, in the filter field,
type the text to use to filter the list. The filter is not case
sensitive. The filter looks for insights that contain the text anywhere in the insight
name.

An insight only returns results if you have enabled integrations or standards that produce
matching findings. For example, the managed insight 29. Top resources
by counts of failed CIS checks only returns results if you enable a version of the Center for Internet Security (CIS)
AWS Foundations Benchmark standard.
