URL: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/userguide/intro.html
TITLE: What is AWS Well-Architected Tool? - AWS Well-Architected Tool

# What is AWS Well-Architected Tool?

AWS Well-Architected Tool (AWS WA Tool) is a service in the cloud that provides a consistent process for
measuring your architecture using AWS best practices. AWS WA Tool helps you throughout the
product lifecycle by doing the following:

- Assisting with documenting the decisions that you make

- Providing recommendations for improving your workload based on best
practices

- Guiding you in making your workloads more reliable, secure, efficient, and
cost-effective

You can use AWS WA Tool to document and measure your workload using the best practices from the
AWS Well-Architected Framework. These best practices were developed by AWS Solutions
Architects based on their years of experience building solutions across a wide variety of
businesses. The framework provides a consistent approach for measuring architectures and
provides guidance for implementing designs that scale with your needs over time.

In addition to AWS best practices, you can use custom lenses to measure your workload
using your own best practices. You can tailor the questions in a custom lens to be specific
to a particular technology or to help you meet the governance needs within your
organization. Custom lenses extend the guidance provided by the AWS lenses.

Integrations with AWS Trusted Advisor and AWS Service Catalog AppRegistry helps you more easily discover the information needed to answer
AWS Well-Architected Toolreview questions.

This service is intended for those involved in technical product development, such as
chief technology officers (CTOs), architects, developers, and operations team members. AWS
customers use AWS WA Tool to document their architectures, provide product launch governance,
and to understand and manage the risks in their technology portfolio.

Topics

- What is AWS Well-Architected Framework?

- AWS Well-Architected Tool glossary
